 And I'd like to welcome you to this videotape course on  signals and systems.  Signals, at least as an informal definition, are  functions of one or more independent variables that  typically carry some type of information.  Systems, in our setting, would typically be used to process  signals.  One very common example of a signal might be, let's say, a  a speech signal.  And you might think of the air pressure as a function of  time, or perhaps the electrical signal after it  goes through the microphone transducer as a function of  time, as representing the speech signal.  And we might see a typical speech signal looking  something like I've indicated here.  It's a function of time in this particular case.  case, and the independent variable, being time, is in  fact continuous.  And so a signal like this we will typically be referring to  as a continuous time signal.  Now it also, for this particular example, is a  function of one independent variable, and that will be  referred to as a one-dimensional signal  corresponding to the fact that there's only one independent  variable instead of several independent variables.  So a speech signal is an example of a continuous time  one-dimensional signal.  Now, signals can, of course, be multidimensional, and they  may not have as their independent  variables time variables.  One very common example are the examples  represented by images.  Images, as signals, we might think of as representing  brightness, as it varies in a horizontal and  vertical direction.  And so the brightness, as a function of these two spatial  variables, is then a two-dimensional signal.  The independent variables would typically be continuous,  continuous, but of course they're not time variables.  And incidentally, it's worth just commenting that very  often, simply for convenience, we'll have a tendency to refer  to the independent variables when we talk about signals as  time variables, whether or not they really do represent time.  Well, let me illustrate one example of an image.  And this is a picture of JBJ Fourier, who perhaps more than anyone else, is responsible for the elegance and beauty of a lot of the concepts that we'll be talking about throughout this course.  And when you look at this, in addition to seeing Fourier himself, you should recognize that what you're looking at is basically a signal,  which is brightness as a function of the horizontal and vertical spatial variables.  As another example of an image as a signal, let's look at an aerial photograph.  photograph. This is an aerial photograph taken over a set of roads, which you can more or less  recognize in the picture. And one of the difficulties with this signal is that the  road system is somewhat obscured by cloud cover. And what I'll want to show later as an example  of what a system might do to such a signal in terms of processing it is an attempt to at least  compensate somewhat for the cloud cover that's represented  in the photograph.  Although in terms of the detailed analysis that we go  through during the course, our focus of attention is pretty  much restricted to one-dimensional signals.  In fact, we will be using two-dimensional signals, more  specifically images, very often to illustrate a variety  of concepts.  sets.  Now, speech and images are examples of what we've referred  to as continuous time signals in that they are functions of  continuous variables.  An equally important class of signals that we will be  concentrating on in the course are signals that are discrete  discrete time signals, where by discrete time, what we mean  is that the signal is a function of an integer  variable, and so specifically only takes on values at  integer values of the argument.  So here is a graphical illustration of a discrete  time signal.  and discrete time signals arise in a variety of ways.  One very common example that is seen fairly often is discrete time signals  in the context of economic time series and, for example, stock market analysis.  So what I show here is one very commonly occurring example of a discrete time signal.  It represents the weekly stock market index.  The independent variable in this case is the week number,  and we see what the stock market is doing over this particular period  as a function of the number of the week and, of course,  along the vertical axis is the weekly index.  Incidentally, this particular period was not chosen at random.  It, in fact, captures a very interesting aspect of stock market history, namely the stock  market crash in 1929, which, in fact, is represented by the behavior of this discrete time signal  or sequence in this particular area.  So this dramatic dip, in fact, is the stock market crash of 1929.  Well, the Dow Jones weekly average is an example of a  one-dimensional discrete time signal.  And just as with continuous time, we had not just  one-dimensional, but multi-dimensional signals,  likewise, we have multi-dimensional signals in  the discrete time case, where in that case, then, the  The discrete time signal that we're talking about, or  sequence, is a function of two integer variables.  And as one example, this might, let's say, represent a  spatial antenna array, where this is array number in, let's  say, the horizontal direction, and this is array number in  the vertical direction.  Both classes of signals, continuous time and discrete  time, as I've indicated, are very important.  important, and it should be emphasized that the importance of discrete time signals and  associated processing continues to grow in large part because of the current and emerging  technologies that permit basically the processing of continuous time signals by first converting  them to discrete time signals and processing them with discrete time systems.  And that, in fact, is a topic that we will discuss in a fair  amount of detail later on in the course.  Let's now turn our attention to systems.  And as I indicated, a system basically processes signals.  And they have, of course, inputs and outputs.  And depending on whether we're talking about continuous time  time or discrete time, the system may be a continuous time  system or a discrete time system.  So in the continuous time case, I indicate here an  input x of t and an output y of t.  If we were talking about a discrete time system, I would  represent the input in terms of a discrete time variable  and, of course, the output in terms of a  discrete time variable also.  So now, in very general terms, systems are hard to deal with  because they are defined very broadly and very generally.  And in dealing with systems and analyzing them, what we  will do is attempt to exploit some very specific and, as  we'll see, very useful system properties.  properties.  To indicate what I mean and how things might be split up, we could talk about systems,  and we'll talk about systems that are linear, and we could divide systems basically into  systems that are either linear or nonlinear, and we will, and also divide systems into  into systems that are what we'll refer to as time  invariant or time varying systems.  And these aren't terms that we've defined yet, of course,  but we will be defining in the course very shortly.  And while in some sense this division represents all  systems and this does too, the focus of the course is really  going to be principally on linear time invariant systems.  systems.  So it's basically these systems that we will be focusing on.  And we'll be referring to those systems as linear time  invariant systems.  Well, as a brief glimpse at some of the kinds of things  that systems can do, let me illustrate first in a  one-dimensional continuous time context, and then later  with a discrete time example one example of some processing of signals with an  appropriate system the particular example that I want to illustrate  relates to the restoration of old recordings and this is some work that  was done by Professor Thomas Stockham who is at the University of Utah and  work that he had done a number of years ago relating to the fact that in old  recordings, for example in Caruso recordings, the recording was done  through a mechanical horn and the characteristics of the horn tended to  vary from day to day. And because of the characteristics of the horn, the  recording tended to have a muffled quality, something like this, sort of the  sense that you would get if you were speaking through a megaphone. What  What Professor Stockham did was develop a system to process  these old recordings in such a way that a lot of the  characteristics and distortion due to that recording system  was removed.  So I'd like to illustrate that as one example of some signal  processing with an appropriate continuous time system.  And what you'll hear is a two-track recording.  recording. On the first track is the original unrestored  Caruso recording.  And on the second track is the result of the restoration.  And so as I switch back and forth from channel one to  channel two, we'll be switching from the original to  the restored.  We'll begin the tape by playing the original.  And then as it proceeds, we'll switch.  switch. So we begin on channel one. That's the original recording. And switch now to  the processed. Now let's switch back. Back to the original. Back to the restoration.  and once again back to the original and presumably and hopefully what you heard  was that in the restoration in fact a lot of the muffled characteristics of  the original recording were compensated for or removed now one of the  interesting things that happened in fact in the work that professor Stockham did  is that in the process of the restoration and perhaps you heard this  In the process of the restoration, in fact, some of the background noise on the recording  was emphasized.  And so he processed the signal further in an attempt to remove that background noise.  And with that particular processing, the processing was very highly nonlinear.  A very interesting thing happened, which was that not only in that processing was the background  noise removed but somewhat surprisingly also the orchestra was removed and let  me just play that now as an example of some very sophisticated processing with  a nonlinear system what you'll hear on channel one is the restoration as we had  just played it when I switched to channel two it will be after the  the processing with an attempt to remove the orchestra  and the background noise.  Channel one now.  And now with the noise and orchestra removed.  Back to channel one.  And finally, once again, with the orchestra removed.  OK.  So that's an example of processing of a continuous  time signal with a corresponding  continuous time system.  Now I'd like to illustrate an example of some processing on  a discrete time signal.  And I'd like to do that in the context of the example that I  showed before of a discrete time signal, which was the  the Dow Jones Industrial Weekly Stock Market Index.  I had shown it before, as I've shown it here again,  over a period of slightly more than a year,  where this is the number of weeks  and this is the weekly index.  And to illustrate some of the processing, what I'd like to do  is show the stock market index, the weekly index,  over a much longer time period.  In particular, the weekly index over a 10-year period.  And that's what I show here.  So what this covers is roughly 1927 to 1937.  And in this case, although this is still a discrete time  signal, just simply for the purposes of display, what  we've done is to essentially connect the dots and draw a  a continuous curve through the points  so that this picture isn't filled up  with a lot of vertical lines.  So this is the discrete time sequence  that represents the weekly Dow Jones index  over a 10-year period.  And here, by the way, again, is the crash of 1929.  It's interesting to note, by the way,  that actually the disaster in the stock market  It wasn't so much the 1929 crash, but the long downward  trend that followed that.  And you can see that here by filtering through by eye the  rapid variations in the index.  And what you see is this smooth downward trend  followed eventually by an upward trend.  Now this issue of looking at something like this, looking  at a sequence and following the smoother parts of it, namely  the long-term trends, is in fact something that is done  quite typically with economic time series like this.  And in particular, what's done is to smooth it or average over  some time period to emphasize the slow variations and  de-emphasize the rapid variations.  And that, in fact, is processing that is done with a discrete time system.  So when you hear referred to, let's say, in stock market reports, a 51-day moving average,  that, in fact, is processing the stock market index with a particular discrete time system.  The result of doing that on this particular example generates a smooth version of the curve,  which I overlay here.  And the overlay then is really attempting to track the  smoother variations and de-emphasize the more rapid  variations.  Let me just slightly offset that so that the difference  stands out a little more.  And so here you see what is the original weekly index.  x, and this is the result of processing that sequence with  an appropriate system to apply smoothing.  And in fact, what it is is a moving average.  And so here again, you can see in the smoother curve this  general downward trend up until this time period  followed by eventually a recovery.  All right, well, we've seen an example with a continuous time  signal, the Caruso recording, an example with a discrete time  signal, the stock market index.  And what I'd also like to show is a third example, which is  the result of some processing on an image, in particular,  the image that we talked about before, which was the aerial  photograph that had the problem of some cloud cover.  So once again, what we see here is the original aerial photograph with the cloud cover, and some processing was applied to this using a system which, in fact, was both nonlinear and, quote, time-varying, or in the case of these independent variables, you would refer to it as spatially varying.  And the result of applying that processing is shown in the adjoining picture.  And what we see there is hopefully a reasonable attempt to compensate for the cloud cover.  And this, by the way, was some work that was done by Professor Lim at MIT  MIT, and has been a very successful type of processing  for aerial photographs.  I should say also that this particular example is one  where, although the original signal was a signal that is  continuous time, that is, the independent variables are  continuous, as they are in a spatial aerial photograph.  In fact, for the processing, that picture was first  first convert it to a sequence through a process called  sampling, which we'll be talking about later, and then  the processing, in fact, was done on a digital computer.  OK, well, these then are some examples of the use of some  systems to process some signals, both in continuous  time, in discrete time, for one-dimensional signals, and  and for multidimensional signals.  And as I've kind of referred to systems, we've thought of  them as kind of one big block with an appropriate or  associated input and output.  And as we'll be getting into in the first part of the  course, very often systems are interconnected together for a  variety of reasons.  Some of the kinds of interconnections that we'll  talk about are connecting systems in what are called  series or cascade interconnections, parallel  interconnections, feedback interconnections.  And feedback interconnections, in fact, are very interesting,  very important, and very useful, and will be a major  topic toward the end of the course.  course. Feedback, as you may or may not know, comes into play in a variety of situations.  For example, in amplifier design, as we'll talk about, feedback plays an important role.  In a situation where you have a basically unstable system, feedback is often used to  stabilize the system and feedback interconnections of systems in that sense are very often used  in high performance aircraft which are inherently unstable and are stabilized through this kind  of interconnection.  Just to give you a little sense of this without going into any of the details, what I'd like  like to show you is an excerpt from a lecture that we'll be  seeing toward the end of the course relating to feedback,  the analysis of feedback systems, and the uses of  feedback.  And this is in the context of what's referred to as the  inverted pendulum, which is a system that's basically  unstable, and feedback interconnections are used to  stabilize it.  The idea, as you'll see in this brief clip,  is that there is a cart that's moving on a track with a rod  that's pivoted at the base.  And so that system, in the absence of anything,  is unstable in that the rod would tend to fall.  And as we go into in detail in the lecture later,  we use feedback to position the cart under the pendulum  to balance it.  And in fact, that balancing can be done even when we  modify the system in a variety of ways, as you'll  see in this clip.  So let's take a look at that, remembering that this is just  a brief excerpt from a longer discussion.  I can change the overall system even further by, let's  say, for example, pouring a liquid in.  in, and now let me also comment that I've changed the  physics of it a little bit because the liquid can slosh  around a little bit.  It becomes a little more complicated a system, but as  you can see, it still remains balanced.  As you'll see when we get to it, by the way, that  demonstration was a lot of fun to do.  Now in talking about signals and systems as we go through  through the course, there are several domains, two in  particular, that we will find convenient for the analysis and  representation of signals and systems.  One is the time domain, which is what we tend to think of  and which we have kind of been focusing on in the discussion  so far in this lecture.  But equally important is what's referred to as the frequency  domain as a representation for signals and as a means for  analysis for systems.  And in the context of the frequency domain representation,  some of the kinds of ideas and topics that we'll be exploring  are the Fourier transform and the Laplace transform.  and a discrete-time counterpart of the Laplace transform,  which is the Z-transform.  The Fourier transform discussion  we'll get into fairly early in the course,  and the Laplace transform and Z-transform  represent extensions of the Fourier transform,  and we'll be getting into that later in the course.  Just kind of initially to think about  the time domain and frequency domain,  you might think, for example,  of a note being played, and the time domain representation would be how, let's say, the  sound pressure as a function of time would change, and the frequency domain representation  would correspond to a representation of the frequency content of the note.  And in fact, what I'd like to do is illustrate that and those two domains simultaneously  simultaneously by playing a glockenspiel note.  What you'll hear is the note repeated several times over.  And at the same time, you'll see two displays, one on the  left representing the time domain display or  representation of the signal, and the one on the right  representing the frequency domain.  So let's look at that.  And you'll hear the note and simultaneously see these two  two displays.  There's the note on the left, the time waveform.  And on the right, what we see is the frequency content, in  particular, indicating the fact that there are several  harmonic lines in the tone.  OK, well, what I've gone through in this lecture  represents a brief overview of signals and systems.  And beginning with the next lecture, we will be much more specific and precise, first discussing some basic signals and then talking about systems and system properties and how to exploit them.  As one final comment that I'd like to make in this lecture, I'd like to emphasize at the outset that the taped lectures represent only one component of the course.  And equally important will be both the textbook and the video course manual.  manual.  In particular, it's important not only to be viewing the  tapes, but simultaneously or in conjunction with that,  doing the appropriate reading in the textbook and also  working through the problems carefully in the video course  manual.  In a course like this, you basically only get out of it  as much as you put into it.  it. The hope is that if you put the right amount of time  and effort into it, you'll find the course to be  educational and interesting.  And I certainly hope that that will be the case.  Thank you. 